All right, so I'm gonna start here,
the next part is we're gonna
talk about the header.
And we're gonna talk about the nav bar,
and how we're going to repurpose that over
a whole bunch of different breakpoints.
And we're going to use Flexbox to lay this
all out, because Flexbox is very cool.
When it comes to NAV bars,
it does amazing thing and again,
this is one of the big differentiators
between Flexbox and grid.
Flexbox can do some things with
the navbar that are really
just not possible with grid.
So, let's take a look at our screenshots
for what we're going for so,
here is the desktop version of the navbar.
Notice here I've got the logo in the
middle, this tends to be a really popular
trend right now, how do we get
a logo in the middle of the navbar?
When we go to a tablet, and we can put the
logo on the top with a nav bar underneath,
so how are we going to
make that magic happen?
And then finally on mobile,
I've just set these up these
navigation buttons up as buttons.
And in my advanced CSS layouts course,
I do walk through how to do a hamburger
button solution using CSS only.
So since I did that there I thought
we do some different styling
here to show you how to make buttons
here instead for your mobile navigation.
There's only a few of these so
it the layout works okay so
let's start then with our HTML and
our CSS.
So the first thing we want to do is we're
going to have to put
the HTML into this web page,
so it's the header of the document.
So we want it to go probably at the top
probably before the mission and
so, in basic format, we're going to
have a header right, slash header.
Then inside of that, we're gonna have
what we're gonna have some navigation.
One of the nice things about navigation is
that there's really only one correct way
to code navigation on your website,
and that is with an unordered list.
That is all navigation is it is
an unordered list of links they can,
you can visit them in
any particular order.
I know the marketing department wants
them to go in a very specific order on
the web page.
And that's fine but it is there's not
an ordered list and is an unordered list.
So we can set that up, and
then we can set up our for
navigation items that we have here,
so we have an LI, we have an A.
We'll set these not to really go
anywhere in particular because
we're not going to build
a whole bunch of pages for
these collections slash a slash li,
and then we can just copy paste that.
So we have four of those, and
we're going to have about contact and
donations.
Okay, straightforward enough,
that's an app bar and
if we just take a look at
what we've got so far.
Open it up in our default browser, that's
what it should look l tiny little nav bar
up there in the upper left hand corner,
with all ugly blue underlined links, okay?
So now what do we do in order
to get a logo on the page well,
we're gonna make this logo
part of this navbar, so
we can say to make it a clickable.
Clickable logo it's gonna go somewhere,
probably back to the homepage.
And then here for our image,
we're just simply going to
say img src,
the image source is going to be what?
Here it is header logo dot SVG I
put it outside of these folders,
this is a new a new element that
you're going to want to grab.
So it is directly inside
a folder number five,
here's the file here called
header logo dot SVG.
You can just drag that into the images
directory, yes going ahead and move it.
You'll want to copy it to the end
folder if you're going to use that and
then we can, get back to typing here.
So Image Source Image
slash header logo dot SVG,
that's going to be our image here for
the logo.
And then we need of course,
always need our alt text while of wonder,
click for home.
I always like to add a click for
home at the end of my all text,
because it's a clickable logo,
If we just say while of wonder no one
has any idea what it's there for.
So I always like to say click for
home to indicate its purpose,
then we can close that close the link,
close the Li.
Save that.
And once again when we refresh the page,
now you should see the logo up
there with its own bullet point.
So the last thing that we probably
are going to wind up meeting here,
because once again we want to have yellow.
We want it to stretch the full width
of the web page, we can add to this,
and I'm going to do exactly the same
thing here Div with a class of header.
And we can close that div down here are at
the bottom, so that will style it up so
that header class gives us
the yellow all the way across.
Then the header which is the more
meaningful more semantic tag is one level
in that is going to contain our
navigation bar and our logo and so forth.
>> Sometimes when I make a web page and
the footer displays
kind of in the center of the screen,
It's not sticking to the bottom.
>> Okay.
>> Whats the solution for that?
>> Well, your footer is displaying
in the middle of the page and
on top of some stuff.
Then you were probably using some kind of
positioning with that often it's sticky
positioning or it's fixed positioning
that you're using with your footer.
And that can do some weird things if you
are using regular old position static
styling.
That's the default for
all HTML elements unless you change
the position property in some other value.
Your footer show always be at
the bottom of the web page or
in the source order exactly in
the order in which it should go unless.
You're talking about the footer shows
up in the middle of the web page,
because the page is short is
that is that the other problem.
And that would be the other issue
remember, what I told you earlier is that
the height of the content determines
the height of the web page.
So the content by default, if you only
have a tiny little bit of content,
then that footer is
definitely gonna come up.
And show up wherever in the middle
of the page or someplace else,
wherever that content ends and
the footer is coming up right after it.
So if you don't want that type of effect
you you could always set some kind of
height somewhere on your webpage.
Or tell Flexbox to stretch or some
combination of those types of things to
try to push the footer down to the bottom,
so
that would be something that I
would think about there too.